T 
 
 

 

Termsheet (Final Terms) 
FACTOR CERTIFICATE 
SSPA DESIGNATION: CONSTANT LEVERAGE CERTIFICATE (2300) 

Vontobel Investment Banking 
+41(0)58 283 78 88 or www.derinet.ch  
 

 
Factor Certificate on the “4X Long Index linked to SMI®”  
 
PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                                                                                               

Factor  Certificates enable  the  investor  to  benefit  disproportionally  (leveraged)  either  from  rising  (leveraged  long  index  products)  or  falling  (leveraged 
short index products) prices of a reference security. At the same time, leverage remains constant. This is achieved whereby the Factor Certificate is not 
based on the reference security itself but on an index (Factor Index). This Factor Index tracks on a daily basis the percentage change in the price of a 
reference security versus its closing price on the previous day using a constant factor (leverage). With Factor Certificates, the leverage effect of the index 
makes it possible to achieve disproportionately high gains but also disproportionately high losses (through to a de-facto total loss of the capital invested 
where the underlying has zero value); however, due to the Factor Index's intra-day adjustment mechanism, losses in excess of the set threshold can at 
least  be  reduced.  For  details  on  the  functions  and  risks  of  Factor  Certificates,  please  see  the  information  below  as  well  as  the  index  guide  on 
https://indices.vontobel.com; the latter contain the principles for the calculation and publication of the Factor Index as well as definitions for the terms 
used in connection with the Factor Index. 

In Switzerland, these financial instruments are considered structured products. They are not collective investment schemes within the meaning of the 
Swiss Federal Act on Collective Investment Schemes (CISA), and are therefore not subject to the regulations of the CISA or the supervision of the Swiss 
Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA. 
 

Product Information 
Issuer 
Lead Manager 
Paying, Exercise and Calculation Agent 
SSPA product type 
Special notice regarding risks 

 

 

 
Underlying (Factor Index) 

Spot reference at issuance 
 
Issue price  
Ratio 
 
Initial fixing 
Payment date 
Maturity 
 
Reference currency 
Swiss Sec. Number / ISIN / TK Symbol 
 
Valuation date 

Amount payable 

 

 
 

Bank Vontobel AG, Zürich (Standard & Poor’s A+; Moody’s A1) 
Bank Vontobel AG, Zurich 
Bank Vontobel AG, Zurich 
Constant Leverage Certificate (2300), see also www.svsp-verband.ch 
Factor Certificates are exposed to – possibly substantial – price fluctuations and involve the risk of considerable 
losses. In unfavourable circumstances, despite the threshold provided for in the Factor Certificate and the 
underlying (Factor Index), a loss (including intra-day) may arise that is very close in financial terms to a total 
loss of the capital invested (including any costs arising in connection with the purchase of a Factor Certificate). 
The investor must also be aware that possible price losses can also arise in the event of a sideways movement 
(price alternately rises and falls) by the reference security. 
Prior to investing in Factor Certificates, investors are advised to read all risk information (including "Significant 
risks for investors" below) and seek expert advice on the risks associated with the specific product. 
 
4X Long Index linked to SMI®  
(further details on the underlying see below “Underlying Description and ”Concept (Factor Index)”) 
CHF 100.00  
 
CHF 10.00 
1 Factor Certificate corresponds to 0.1 “4X Long Index linked to SMI®” 
 
February 25, 2014 
March 4, 2014 
Open End 
 
CHF; Issue, trading and redemption will follow in the reference currency  
23785020 / CH0237850208 / FI4LSM 
 
The valuation date corresponds to the respective termination date or exercise day (as defined below in 
“Issuer's right to call” and “Exercise rights of the investor”). 
 
Where the valuation date is not an "index day" (i.e. a day on which the Index Calculation Agent normally 
calculates  and  publishes  the  underlying  (Factor  Index)  in  accordance  with  the  index  concept  on  which  the 
underlying is based (see index guide)), the valuation date is postponed to the following index day. 
The  amount  payable  corresponds,  taking  into  account  the  ratio,  to  the  reference  price  of  the  underlying 
(Factor Index) on the relevant valuation date, where applicable converted into the reference currency (at its 
own  discretion,  the  Calculation  Agent  determines  the  exchange  rate  on  the  valuation  date  at  the  time  of 
determining the reference price). 
Payment is made 5 (five) banking days after the valuation date. 

 
Page 1 

Termsheet 

 

 

Further Information 
Issue size 
Issuer's right to call 

Exercise rights of the investor 

Market disruptions, adjustment events 
and early termination 

Clearing / Settlement  
Listing  
Secondary market trading 

Minimum investment 
Minimum trading lot 
Tax treatment in Switzerland 

Title 

Applicable Law / Jurisdiction 
Prudential supervision 

Vontobel Investment Banking 

1’000'000 Factor Certificates, the size may be increased 
The issuer has the right to terminate all outstanding Factor Certificates for early redemption on a termination 
date ("termination date"; for the first time in March 2014) without stating a reason. The termination date is in 
each case the last banking day of every month of the year. The corresponding notice must be published, citing 
the termination date, at least 5 (five) banking days prior to the corresponding termination date on which the 
termination is effective. In this event, the term of the Factor Certificates ends prematurely. 
In the event of termination, the amount payable is determined on the valuation date. The corresponding 
payment to the investor is made [5 (five)] banking days after the valuation date. All rights under the terminated 
Factor Certificates expire upon payment of the amount payable. 
Besides the possibility of selling Factor Certificates on an off or on-exchange basis within the respective trading 
hours, the investor has the right, subject to prior termination by the issuer, to exercise his Factor Certificates in 
each case on the last banking day of every month, for the first time in March 2014 ("exercise date"). The 
exercise declaration must be made by telephone and fax to the Paying, Exercise and Calculation Agent no more 
than 5 (five) banking days prior to the exercise date, citing the important information required for proper 
exercising (i.e. name and address of holder; exercise declaration; precise description [including ISIN] and number 
of book-entry securities that are to be exercised; settlement instructions for the bank managing the account). 
The exercise declaration is binding and irrevocable once it is received by the Paying, Exercise and Calculation 
Agent. Exercise declarations received late or whose contents are incorrect are in principle invalid and not treated 
as an exercise declaration with regard to subsequent exercise dates. 
In the event of exercising, the amount payable is determined on the valuation date. The corresponding payment 
to the investor is made 5 (five) banking days after the valuation date. All investor rights under the exercised 
Factor Certificates expire upon payment of the amount payable. 
In the event of market disruptions and the announcement or occurrence of certain events ("adjustment 
events") with regard to the underlying (Factor Index) or its constituents, such as (i) a change, adjustment or 
other measure with regard to the relevant concept and the calculation of the underlying or its constituents with 
the result that in the issuer's opinion the relevant concept or relevant calculation of the underlying is no longer 
comparable with that on the day the Factor Certificate was issued, (ii) a dissolution of the underlying or its 
constituents and/or replacement by another index concept or (iii) the introduction of certain taxes or duties, etc. 
(not an exhaustive list), the issuer has the right to make discretionary adjustments (based on current market 
practice) or terminate the Factor Certificates prematurely (see issue programme for details). 
SIX SIS AG 
Will be applied for in the main segment at the SIX Swiss Exchange 
Throughout the entire term a secondary trading is conducted. Indicative daily prices of this product are available 
 
at www.derinet.ch. 
1 Factor Certificate  
1 Factor Certificate 
Gains on this product are not subject to the direct federal tax 
Neither withholding tax nor the stamp duty at issuance is imposed.  
Secondary market transactions are not subject to Swiss stamp duty. 
For Swiss paying agents this product is not subject to the EU tax on interest (Issuer: Bank Vontobel AG). 
The taxation mentioned is a non-binding and non-exhaustive summary of the applicable treatment of Swiss-
domiciled private investors for tax purposes. 
The  investor's  specific  circumstances,  however,  are  not  taken  into  account.  We  point  out  that  Swiss  and/or 
foreign tax law or the authoritative practice of Swiss and/or foreign tax authorities can change at any time or 
specify further tax or charge liabilities (possibly even with retrospective effect). The levying and transferring of 
further taxes and charges, such as (foreign) transaction taxes, taxes at source and/or withholding taxes, to the 
investor  remains  expressly  reserved  (see  also  the  corresponding  tax  law  explanations  in  the  issuance 
programme). 
Potential  investors  should  have  the  tax  effects  of  the  purchase,  holding,  sale  or  repayment  of  this  product 
examined by their own tax adviser - especially with respect to the effects of taxation under another jurisdiction. 

The Structured Products are issued in the form of non-certificated book-entry securities of the issuer. 
No certificates, no printing of bonds. 
Swiss law / Zürich 1, Switzerland 
As a bank and prudentially supervised financial intermediary, Bank Vontobel AG is subject to the supervision of 
individual banks, while Vontobel Holding AG and Vontobel Financial Products Ltd. as group member companies 
are  subject  to  complementary,  consolidated  group  supervision  by  the  Federal  Financial  Markets  Regulator 
FINMA. Vontobel Financial Products Ltd. is registered in the register of the Dubai International Finance Centre 
as a non-regulated company. Neither Vontobel Financial Products Ltd. nor Vontobel Holding AG are financial 
intermediaries subject to prudential supervision within the meaning of art. 5 para.1 subpara. a ciph. 1.-4. of the 
CISA. 

 
 
 

Page 2 

Termsheet 

 
Concept (Factor Index) 

Description of the underlying 

Underlying (Factor Index)  
4X Long Index linked to SMI® 

Vontobel Investment Banking 

4X Long Index linked to SMI® 

February 25, 2014 
100 index points 
CHF; one index point represents CHF 1.00 
ISIN: CH0236907660 / Swiss Security number: 23690766 

A  Factor  Index  tracks  the  percentage  change  of  a  reference  security  while  taking  into  account  the 
corresponding leverage (factor) (see 'Description of the underlying (Factor Index)' below) on a daily basis. At 
the same time, the leverage effect remains constant. The basis for calculating the index level is the change in 
the reference security versus the reference security's closing price on the previous day. With each closing price 
of  the  underlying,  therefore,  a  new  reference  price  is  determined  that  in  turn  represents  the  basis  for  the 
following day's percentage performance. 
Due  to  the  leverage  effect,  Factor  Indices  may  result  in  overproportional  price  losses;  a  total  loss  or  even  a 
negative index level is avoided as far as possible owing to the respective threshold (i.e. the maximum permitted 
change in the price of the reference security since the latest adjustment prior to an intra-day adjustment in the 
Factor Index; see 'Description of underlying (Factor Index)' below). In the event of excessive price losses for the 
Factor Index (depending on the structure of the respective Factor Index and specific level of the threshold; for 
details, see 'Description of the underlying (Factor Index)' below), the calculation of the Factor Index is halted 
and  a  new  day  is  simulated.  Depending  on  the  performance  of  a  reference  security,  several  intra-day 
adjustments are possible during a single index day. 
The Factor Index consists of a leverage and a financing component (for details, see index guide). 
The 4X Long Index linked to SMI® is part of the Vontobel Leveraged family of indices. It reflects a Long 
investment in the SMI® Index that is leveraged by a factor of 4. 
 
Index name: 
 
Index start date: 
Index start value: 
Index currency: 
Identification: 
 
Reference price: 
the amount payable, which corresponds to the closing price of the underlying (index closing price) ascertained 
and published by the Index Calculation Agent on the relevant valuation date. 
 
Index Calculation Agent: 
Reference security: 
Leverage (factor): 
Threshold: 
Index fee: 
Interest rate: 
Initial financing spread: 
 
The performance and any changes to the Factor Index as well as the index guide, including the details on 
calculating the index, are available at https://indices.vontobel.com. All announcements concerning the Factor 
Index are made through publication on the aforementioned information site, whereby an announcement is 
deemed to have been made on the day of first publication. 
 
Important notice 
The Vontobel Leveraged Indices (Factor Indices) are not recognised financial indices but are customized indices 
conceived by Bank Vontobel AG in its capacity as Index Calculation Agent, their sole function being to act as 
underlying for this type of security (Factor Certificates). 
The Index Calculation Agent will perform the calculation and composition of the Factor Index with the utmost 
care. However, the Index Calculation Agent cannot guarantee that calculation of the index or other key figures 
required  for  the  composition  and  calculation  in  accordance  with  the  index  guide  will  be  free  from  error  and 
accepts no liability whatsoever towards third parties for associated direct or indirect damages (see index guide 
for details). 

Bank Vontobel AG, Gotthardstrasse 43, 8002 Zurich, Switzerland 
SMI® (ISIN: CH0009980894; Bloomberg <SMI Index>) 
4 (type Long) 
21.00% 
1.00% p.a. 
CHF LIBOR O/N (overnight) 
0.10% p.a. 

The price of the underlying (Factor Index) relevant to determining and calculating 

 

 
 
PROSPECTS OF PROFIT AND LOSSES 

Factor Certificates track the performance of an index (Factor Index) on which the certificates are based. They provide an opportunity to benefit 
overproportionally either from rising (leveraged long index products) or falling (leveraged short index products) prices of the reference security on which 
the index is based. Essentially, a long strategy's profit potential is thus unlimited; for a short strategy, the maximum profit potential is limited and reached 
when the market price of the reference security drops to zero. A possible gain arises from the positive difference between the sale price that is achieved 
or repayment amount and the purchase price. Factor Certificates do not yield current income. The value of the Factor Certificate during the term is 
essentially determined by the performance of the relevant Factor Index and therefore by the performance of the underlying reference security, the degree 
of leverage (factor), level of interest rates, possible exchange rate fluctuations and, if applicable, any change with regard to the cost of providing 
collateral (e.g. for future contracts). 
The investor bears the risk of a daily investment in the underlying (Factor Index), leveraged by a factor. With the choice of factor (leverage), the investor 
also simultaneously determines the level of risk. The greater the leverage, the greater the risk: the leverage effect amplifies both the gains and the losses 
that arise for the underlying (Factor Index). In unfavourable circumstances, despite the threshold provided for in the Factor Certificate, a loss (including 
intra-day) may arise that is very close in financial terms to a total loss of the capital invested (including any costs arising in connection with the purchase 
of a Factor Certificate). In volatile sideways phases, the underlying (Factor Index) can also lose value despite the reference security reaching its original 
price level at the end of the sideways phase. 
 
Even if the performance of the underlying (Factor Index) is positive, the price of the product may be considerably below the issue price during the term. 
Potential investors should bear in mind that price changes to the underlying (Factor Index), as well as other influencing factors, may have a negative 
effect on the value of structured products.  

 

 
 
 

Page 3 

Termsheet 

 

SIGNIFICANT RISKS FOR INVESTORS 

Vontobel Investment Banking 

Currency risks 
If the underlying or underlyings is/are denominated in a currency other than the product's reference currency, investors should bear in mind that this may 
involve risks due to fluctuating exchange rates and that the risk of loss does not only depend on the performance of the underlying(s) but also on any  
unfavourable performance of the other currency or currencies. This does not apply for currency-hedged products (quanto structure). 

Market risks 
The general market performance of securities is dependent in particular on the development of the capital markets which, for their part, are influenced by 
the general global economic situation as well as by the economic and political framework conditions in the respective countries (so-called market risk). 
Changes to market prices such as interest rates, commodity prices or corresponding volatilities may have a negative effect on the valuation of the 
underlying(s) or the structured product. There is also the risk of market disruptions (such as trading or stock market interruptions or discontinuation of 
trading) or other unforeseeable occurrences concerning the respective underlyings and/or their stock exchanges or markets taking place during the term 
or upon maturity of the structured products. Such occurrences can have an effect on the time of redemption and/or on the value of the structured 
products. 

Secondary market risks 
Under normal market conditions, the issuer or the lead manager intend to post bid- and ask-prices on a regular basis. However, neither the issuer nor the 
lead manager is under any obligation with respect to investors to provide such bid- and ask-prices for specific order or securities volumes, and there is no 
guarantee of a specific liquidity or of a specific spread (i.e. the difference between bid- and ask-prices), for which reason investors cannot rely on being 
able to purchase or sell the structured products on a specific date or at a specific price. 

Issuer risk 
The value of structured products may depend not only on the performance of the underlying(s), but also on the creditworthiness of the issuer/guarantor, 
which may change during the term of the structured product. The investor is exposed to the risk of default of the issuer/guarantor. For further 
information on the rating of Vontobel Holding AG or Bank Vontobel AG, please see the issuance programme. 

Publication of notifications and adjustments 
All notifications to investors concerning the products and adjustments to the product terms (e.g. due to corporate actions) are published under the 
"Product history" of the respective product at www.derinet.ch, and, in the case of products listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange in accordance with the valid 
provisions at www.six-swiss-exchange.com. 

Classification 
In Switzerland, these financial instruments are considered structured products. They are not collective investment schemes within the meaning of the 
Swiss Federal Act on Collective Investment Schemes (CISA), and are therefore not subject to the regulations of the CISA or the supervision of the Swiss 
Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA. 

Restrictions on sales 
U.S.A., U.S. persons, UK, EEA. 
DIFC/Dubai: This document relates to an Exempt Offer in accordance with the Markets Rules Module (MKT) of the Dubai Financial Services Authority 
(DFSA). This document is intended for distribution only to a person entitled to receive it under Rule 2.3.1 of the MKT. It must not be delivered to, or 
relied on, by any other person. The DFSA has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any documents in connection with Exempt Offers. The DFSA has 
not approved this document nor taken any steps to verify the information set out in it, and has no responsibility for it. The securities to which this 
document relates may be illiquid and/or subject to restrictions on their resale. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their own 
due diligence on the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. 

Further risk information 
Please also note the additional risk factors and selling restrictions set out in detail in the issuance programme. 

 
 

 

LEGAL NOTICES 

Product documentation  
Only the Termsheets published at www.derinet.ch along with the associated notices and adjustments shall be legally valid.  
The original version of the Termsheet is in German; foreign-language versions constitute non-binding translations. The issuer and/or Bank Vontobel AG is 
entitled to correct spelling mistakes, calculation or other obvious errors in this Termsheet and to make editorial changes, as well as to amend or 
supplement contradictory or incomplete provisions, without the consent of the investors.  
Up until the fixing date, the product terms designated as such of the "Termsheet (Indication)" are indicative and may be adjusted. The issuer is under no 
obligation to issue the product. The "Termsheet (Final Terms)", which is usually issued on the date of the initial fixing, contains a summary of the most 
important final terms and information, and constitutes the "Final Terms" pursuant to art. 21 of the Additional Rules for the Listing of Derivates of SIX 
Swiss Exchange. Together with the issuance programme of June 1, 2013, registered with SIX Swiss Exchange (the "Issuance Programme"), the Final 
Terms constitute the complete listing prospectus according to the the Listing Rules. In the event of discrepancies between this Termsheet and the 
Issuance Programme, the provisions of the Final Terms shall take precedence.  
For structured products not listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange, the Termsheet (Indication) constitutes the preliminary simplified prospectus and the 
Termsheet (Final Terms) constitutes the definitive simplified prospectus pursuant to art. 5 of the Federal Act on Collective Investment Schemes (CISA). In 
addition, reference is also made (with the exception of the provisions authoritative for a listing) to the Issuance Programme, in particular to the detailed 
information on risks contained therein, to the General Terms and Conditions and to the descriptions of the corresponding product types. 
During the entire term of the structured product, all documents may be ordered free of charge from Bank Vontobel AG, Financial Products 
documentation, Bleicherweg 21, 8002 Zurich (telephone: +41 (0)58 283 78 88, fax +41 (0)58 283 57 67). Termsheets may also be downloaded on the 
www.derinet.ch website. 
Vontobel explicitly rejects any liability for publications on other Internet platforms. 

 
 
 
 

Page 4 

Termsheet 

 

 

Vontobel Investment Banking 

Further information 
The list and information shown do not constitute a recommendation concerning the underlying in question; they are for information purposes only and 
do not constitute either an offer or an invitation to submit an offer, or a recommendation to purchase financial products. Indicative information is 
provided without warranty. The information is not a substitute for the advice that is indispensable before entering into any derivative transaction. Only 
investors who fully understand the risks of the transaction to be concluded and who are commercially in a position to bear the losses which may thereby 
arise should enter into such transactions. Furthermore, we refer to the brochure "Special Risks in Securities Trading" which you can order from us. In 
connection with the issuing and/or selling of structured products, companies from the Vontobel Group can pay reimbursements to third parties directly or 
indirectly in different amounts. Such commission is included in the issue price. You can obtain further information from your sales agent upon request. 
We will be happy to answer any questions you may have concerning our products on +41 (0)58 283 78 88 from 08.00 – 17.00 CET on bank business 
days. Please note that all calls to this number are recorded. By calling this number, your consent to such recording is deemed given. 

Material changes since the most recent annual financial statements 
Subject  to  the  information  in  this  Termsheet  and  the  Issuance  Programme,  no  material  changes  have  occurred  in  the  assets  and  liabilities,  financial 
position and profits and losses of the issuer/guarantor since the reporting date or the close of the last financial year or the interim financial statements of 
the issuer and, as the case may be, of the guarantor. 

Responsibility for the listing prospectus 
Bank Vontobel AG takes responsibility for the content of the listing prospectus and hereby declares that, to the best of its knowledge, the information is 
correct and that no material facts or circumstances have been omitted. 

 

 
Zurich, February 25, 2014 
Bank Vontobel AG, Zurich 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

Your customer relationship manager will be happy to answer any questions you may have. 

 

Bank Vontobel AG  

Banque Vontobel SA,  

Gotthardstrasse 43, CH-8022 Zürich  

Rue du Rhône 31,  CH-1204 Genève 

Telefon +41 (0)58 283 71 11 

Internet: http://www.derinet.com 

 

Téléphone +41 (0)58 283 26 26 

Internet: http://www.derinet.com 

Page 5 

