 

 

                                                                                 

  

 

1/6 

Investment Banking 

  VONCERT Open End on the Bitcoin  

 

 

 

Termsheet (Final Terms) 
SSPA Designation 
Tracker Certificate (1300) 

Contact 
+41 58 283 78 88  
www.derinet.com 

 

In Switzerland, these financial instruments are considered structured products. They are not collective investment schemes 
within the meaning of the Swiss Federal Act on Collective Investment Schemes (CISA), and are therefore not subject to the 
regulations of the CISA or the supervision of the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA. The investors bear the 
issuer's credit risk. 

 

 
Product Description 
These VONCERT Open End as tracker certificates, provide the opportunity to participate in an underlying instrument’s 
performance in a transparent way and with a single transaction. The potential yield and loss is comparable to that of the 
underlying instrument. 
 
Product Information 
Issuer 
Bank Vontobel AG, Zürich (Moody's Counterparty Risk Assessment A2 (cr)) 
Lead Manager 
Bank Vontobel AG, Zurich 
Paying, exercise and calculation agent  Bank Vontobel AG, Zurich 
SSPA product type 
 
Underlying 
Spot reference price 
Ratio 
 
Issue price  
Nominal value 
 
Initial fixing 
Payment date 
Maturity 
Redemption Date 
 
Reference currency 
Swiss Sec. Number / ISIN / Symbol 
 
Redemption amount 

Tracker Certificate (1300), see also www.svsp-verband.ch 
 
US Dollar per 1 Bitcoin (further details on the underlying see below) 
USD 5‘679.00 per 1.00 XBT  
0.10 
 
USD 567.90   
USD 5‘679.00 
 
25 October 2017 
01 November 2017 
Open End 
5 Bank Business Days after the relevant Termination Date or Exercise Date (as described below) 
 
USD; Issue, trading and redemption will follow in the reference currency  
CH0382903356 / 38290335/ ZXBTAV 
 
The redemption amount per VONCERT Open End shall correspond to the Nominal value multiplied by the Ratio 
and further multiplied by the Performance Factor on the respective Termination Date (in case of termination by 
the issuer) or on the respective Exercise Date (in case of an exercise by the investor): 
 
Redemption amount = Nominal value * Ratio * Performance Factor 
 

2/6  Investment Banking / Termsheet (Final Terms) 

Vontobel 

 
 
Performance Factor 

Management Fee 
Reference Price 

Ordinary termination 

Investor's Exercise Right 

Reference Dates 

 

Extraordinary termination 

Hedging disruption 

The Performance Factor of the Underlying on a trading day shall correspond to the performance of the 
Underlying since Initial fixing, less Management Fee and will be calculated according the following formula: 
 

∏

t

(cid:167)
(cid:168)(cid:168)
(cid:169)

B
t
B
t

1
−

−

Fee

d
t
360

(cid:183)
(cid:184)(cid:184)
(cid:185)

 

 
Where: 
t 
Bt  

shall mean the number of trading days since the Initial fixing 
shall mean the reference price of the underlying at the end of the trading day t (B0 = Reference price 
of the underlying at initial fixing) 
shall mean the Management Fee  
shall mean the number of calendar days between trading day t and previous trading day t-1. 

Feet  
dt 
1.50% p.a. (deducted pro rata on a daily basis) 
The calculation agent will determine the Reference price of the underlying for one day on the basis of the 
prices at the Reference exchanges for this underlying at its sole discretion. 
The issuer shall be entitled to ordinarily terminate all outstanding VONCERTs Open End with effect at each 
Reference date for the purpose of early repayment on the redemption date without giving any indication of 
reasons. The relevant notification has to be published at least one month in advance stating the termination 
date authoritative for calculating the Redemption Amount (“Termination Date”). 
In this event, the term of the VONCERTs Open End shall end early and all investors in the VONCERT Open End 
are entitled to receive the respective Redemption Amount on the respective Redemption Date. 
Investors may exercise the VONCERTs Open End they hold on any Reference date. The exercise declaration 
must be submitted to the Exercise Agent at least five Bank Business Day before the respective Reference date, 
in order to be effective on this Reference date. Exercise declarations received after that time will not become 
effective until the next Reference date. The Bank Business Day on which an exercise becomes effective is an 
Exercise Date (“Exercise Date”). Any exercise by an Investor prevails over an early termination due to Issuer’s 
Call as described above. 
Each second Friday of March and September. If the Reference Date is not a Bank Business Day, the next Bank 
Business Day is considered as the Reference Date. 
The Issuer is entitled to extraordinarily terminate the VONCERT Open End in exceptional cases for a hedging 
disruption (as described below) for tax or other extraordinary reasons and in the event of no outstanding 
positions (as detailed in the Issuance Program). 
A hedging disruption occurs when the Issuer and / or its affiliated companies are not able, even under 
economically reasonable efforts (i) to conclude hedging transactions, reenter, replace, maintain, solve, acquire 
or dispose of, or ( ii) to realize revenues, recover or transfer such hedging transactions. The Issuer determines 
in its sole discretion whether a hedging disruption occurs. 

 
 
Further Information 
Issue size                                                   *  60‘000 VONCERT Open End, the size may be increased 
Title 

Depository 
Clearing / Settlement 
Applicable Law / Jurisdiction 
Publication of notifications and  
adjustments 
 

Secondary market trading 

Listing  
Minimum investment 
Minimum trading lot 
Figures for fees and charges 

Supervision 

The Structured Products are issued in the form of non-certificated book-entry securities of the issuer. 
No certificates, no printing of bonds. 
SIX SIS AG 
SIX SIS AG, Euroclear Brussels, Clearstream (Luxembourg) 
Swiss law / Zürich 1, Switzerland 
All notifications to investors concerning the products and adjustments to the product terms (e.g. due to 
corporate actions) are published under the "Product history" of the respective product at www.derinet.ch, and, 
in the case of products listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange in accordance with the valid provisions at www.six-
swiss-exchange.com. 
Bank Vontobel will endeavor to provide a secondary market under consideration of the liquidity of the 
underlying during the term of the product. Indicative daily prices of this product are available at 
www.derinet.com. 
Will be applied for in the main segment at the SIX Swiss Exchange. 
1 VONCERT Open End 
1 VONCERT Open End 
Vontobel estimates the Issuer Estimated Value (IEV) of this product at 100%, which gives a Total Expense Ratio 
(TER) of 1.50%.  
No Distribution charges are included in this TER figure. 
As a bank and prudentially supervised financial intermediary, Bank Vontobel AG is subject to the supervision of 
individual banks by the Federal Financial Markets Regulator FINMA. 

 

 
 
* Adjustment of 27 November 2017: Increase of the issue size (see notification on product history under www.derinet.com) 

3/6  Investment Banking / Termsheet (Final Terms) 

Vontobel 

 
Tax treatment in Switzerland 
Swiss Income Tax 

Swiss Withholding Tax 
Issuance Stamp Tax 
Swiss turnover tax 
General information 

For natural persons resident in Switzerland, any capital growth represents a capital gain and is in principle not 
subject to direct federal taxes.  
No Swiss withholding tax 
No Swiss stamp duty at issuance 
Secondary market transactions are not subject to the swiss turnover tax.  
Transactions and payments relating to this product may be subject to further (foreign) transaction taxes, duties 
and/or withholding taxes, in particular a withholding tax pursuant to the Section 871(m) of the US Internal 
Revenue Code. All payments from this product will occur with any applicable taxes and duties deducted. 
The taxation mentioned is a non-binding and non-exhaustive summary of the applicable treatment of Swiss-
domiciled private investors for tax purposes. 
The investor's specific circumstances, however, are not taken into account. We point out that Swiss and/or 
foreign tax law or the authoritative practice of Swiss and/or foreign tax authorities can change at any time or 
specify further tax or charge liabilities (possibly even with retrospective effect). 
Potential investors should have the tax effects of the purchase, holding, sale or repayment of this product 
examined by their own tax adviser - especially with respect to the effects of taxation under another jurisdiction. 

 

 
Description of the underlying 

US Dollar per 1 Bitcoin 
(XBTUSD exchange rate) 

Name:  
Description:  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

US Dollar (USD) per 1 Bitcoin (XBT) 
The term ‘Bitcoin’ refers to an internet currency whose monetary units are created  
and managed decentralized on a computer network. Bitcoin users who are  
connected with each other via the internet can transfer bitcoins to one another  
electronically. Bitcoins only exist virtually on a computer network and have no
physical equivalent. Bitcoins are traded in a completely decentralized way on the 
internet and do not have to be processed via intermediaries of any kind (e.g. 
countries, central / commercial banks). 

Reference exchanges:   CoinBase, Kraken Bitcoin Exchange, Bitfinex 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
Identification:   

The calculation agent has the right to remove, add or change one or more  
reference exchanges at its sole discretion  

Bloomberg <XBTUSD Curncy> 

 
Prospects of Profit and Losses 
VONCERT Open End are tracker certificates which allow participating in an underlying instrument’s performance in a transparent way and with a single 
transaction. Any potential profit consists of the positive difference between the sales price achieved, i.e. the redemption price, and the purchase price. 
VONCERT Open End do not provide ongoing revenues. The value of the VONCERT Open End during their term is significantly influenced by the price 
development of the underlying instrument.    
Even if the performance of the underlying is positive for the investor, that is an appreciation of the XBT against the USD, the price of the product during 
the term can be considerably below the issue price. Potential investors should bear in mind that price changes to the underlying, as well as other 
influencing factors, may have a negative effect on the value of structured products.  
 
Assumptions and limitations in preparing the market scenarios  

The following market scenarios should afford the investor a simplified way of making an assessment of the significant factors that influence the 
investment performance of the certificate. For a precise analysis of the profit and loss scenarios, reference must be made to the formulas and 
definitions set out in this termsheet, (e.g. for "reimbursement"), because these scenarios have been deliberately simplified in order to make them better 
understandable. With the exception of those certificates for which one of the following factors is defined as the underlying (e.g. a currency certificate or 
a certificate of interest), the impact of these risk factors will be excluded from the simplified presentation of the scenario  
• 
• 
•  Volatility risks  
• 
• 
 

Issuer risk  
Fees and costs both stemming from the certificate and for the acquisition and holding of the certificate 

Foreign currency risks  
Interest rate risks  

Market scenarios 

Maximum gain: Underlying performance 
Maximum loss: 100% 
 
Positive scenario: 
Indicative performance of the certificate: 0% to underlying performance 
Necessary market performance of underlying: 
- Proportional participation in positive market performance 
 
Break even: 
Indicative performance of the certificate: 0% 
Necessary market performance of underlying: 

4/6  Investment Banking / Termsheet (Final Terms) 

Vontobel 

 
- Closing price of underlying = reference price level at the time of the investment 
 
Negative scenario: 
Indicative performance of the certificate: Loss of up to 100% possible 
Necessary market performance of underlying: 
- Closing price of underlying is lower than the reference price level at the time of the investment 

 

Significant Risks for Investors 
 
Underlying-related risk 
As the Federal Council elaborated in its report on virtual currencies dated 25 June 2014, users of Bitcoins (and therefore investors in products with 
Bitcoin as an underlying, indirectly) are exposed to elevated risk of fraud and loss. Several markets for Bitcoins already had to cease their activities or 
have been closed for other reasons - in some cases because of hacker attacks. 
Bitcoin can be stolen. After purchase, Bitcoin is regularly stored in a "virtual wallet" on a computer, laptop or smartphone. These virtual wallets are 
usually protected by a private key or password. Virtual wallets also usually have a public key and a private key or a password for the access however, 
virtual wallets are not fully protected from hackers. Just as in real wallets, money can be stolen from a virtual wallet as well. 
Thefts and hacker attacks can have a negative impact on the reputation of the currency or the market place concerned and thus affect negatively the 
market price of Bitcoins. Through the product, investors would indirectly participate to such a negative performance, the total loss would be possible. 
Bitcoins can be used anonymously and Bitcoins do not have to be traded through government institutions or banks. Bitcoins can be purchased directly 
from an owner or a trading venue. These platforms are generally not regulated. Investors thus face increased risk of the issuer identifying occurrence of 
a hedging disruption, involving the loss risks outlined below. 
The market value of a Bitcoin is not based on any kind of claim, nor any physical asset. Instead, the market value depends entirely on the expectation of 
being usable in future transactions. This strong correlation between an expectation and market value is the basis for the current and probably future 
volatility of the market value of Bitcoins. 
If over 50% of all computers used worldwide for verifying Bitcoin transactions are subject to control by a single instance, there is a risk that the 
controlling instance could take over 100% of all transactions. Such "51% attacks", as they are known, can cause overall confidence in Bitcoin to 
evaporate, bringing all trading to a halt, thereby causing losses for investors up to and including a possible total loss. 
 
Risks due to hedging disruptions 
If the issuer identifies a hedging disruption, investors are exposed to the risk of total loss, as the final fixing could be based on an underlying valued at 
zero. 
 
Currency risks 
If the underlying or underlyings is/are denominated in a currency other than the product's reference currency, investors should bear in mind that this 
may involve risks due to fluctuating exchange rates and that the risk of loss does not only depend on the performance of the underlying(s) but also on 
any unfavourable performance of the other currency or currencies. This does not apply for currency-hedged products (quanto structure). 
 
Market risks 
The general market performance of securities is dependent in particular on the development of the capital markets which, for their part, are influenced 
by the general global economic situation as well as by the economic and political framework conditions in the respective countries (so-called market 
risk). Changes to market prices such as interest rates, commodity prices or corresponding volatilities may have a negative effect on the valuation of the 
underlying(s) or the structured product. There is also the risk of market disruptions (such as trading or stock market interruptions or discontinuation of 
trading) or other unforeseeable occurrences concerning the respective underlyings and/or their stock exchanges or markets taking place during the 
term or upon maturity of the structured products. Such occurrences can have an effect on the time of redemption and/or on the value of the structured 
products. 
In the event of trading restrictions, sanctions and similar occurrences, the issuer is entitled, for the purpose of calculating the value of the structured 
product, to include at its own discretion the underlying instruments at their most recently traded price, at a fair value to be established at its sole 
discretion or indeed as worthless, and/or additionally to suspend pricing in the structured product or liquidate the structured product prematurely. 
 
Secondary market risks 
Under normal market conditions, the issuer or the lead manager intend to post bid- and ask-prices on a regular basis. However, neither the issuer nor 
the lead manager is under any obligation with respect to investors to provide such bid- and ask-prices for specific order or securities volumes, and 
there is no guarantee of a specific liquidity or of a specific spread (i.e. the difference between bid- and ask-prices), for which reason investors cannot 
rely on being able to purchase or sell the structured products on a specific date or at a specific price. 
 
Issuer risk 
The value of structured products may depend not only on the performance of the underlying(s), but also on the creditworthiness of the guarantor, which 
may change during the term of the structured product. The investor is exposed to the risk of default of the guarantor. For further information on the 
rating of Bank Vontobel AG or Vontobel Holding AG , please see the issuance programme. 
 
Selling Restrictions 
U.S.A., U.S. Persons, UK, DIFC/Dubai 
Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, UK (please refer to the below mentioned WARNING STATEMENT) (note: the afore list is not exhaustive). 
European Economic Area (EEA): Investors should note the selling restrictions: since neither this termsheet nor the issuance programme meets the 
requirements of the EU Prospectus Directive, the implementing regulations or the national transposing measures, this security may not be publicly 
offered for sale within the EEA until a corresponding prospectus has been drawn up and approved by the supervisory authority, unless: (a) this offer is 

5/6  Investment Banking / Termsheet (Final Terms) 

Vontobel 

 
aimed exclusively at qualified investors, (b) this offer is aimed at fewer than 150 investors in total in each state in the EEA, (c) the minimum investment 
amount per investor is EUR 100,000 or the securities have a minimum nominal value of EUR 100,000, or (d) the selling price of all the securities offered 
is less than EUR 100,000. 
DIFC/Dubai: This document relates to an Exempt Offer in accordance with the Markets Rules Module (MKT) of the Dubai Financial Services Authority 
(DFSA). This document is intended for distribution only to a person entitled to receive it under Rule 2.3.1 of the MKT. It must not be delivered to, or 
relied on, by any other person. The DFSA has no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any documents in connection with Exempt Offers. The DFSA 
has not approved this document nor taken any steps to verify the information set out in it, and has no responsibility for it. The securities to which this 
document relates may be illiquid and/or subject to restrictions on their resale. Prospective purchasers of the securities offered should conduct their 
own due diligence on the securities. If you do not understand the contents of this document, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. 
These Structured Products may only be offered or sold, or be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directly or 
indirectly, under the conditions specified, and to the persons described, in, the below mentioned WARNING STATEMENT. Recipients of the Issuance 
Documentation and/or any other document or material in relation to the issue, offering or sale of the Structured Products may not reissue, circulate or 
distribute any of the aforementioned documents or materials or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever, except to the persons described in the 
below mentioned WARNING STATEMENT. 
As a rule, no action has been taken or will be taken on the part of the Issuer or any other entity in the Vontobel group of companies, that would permit or 
justify any offer of these Structured Products and/or the possession, circulation or distribution of the Issuance Documentation or any other offering or 
publicity material relating to these Structured Products, where action for such purpose is required under the laws and regulations of any country or 
jurisdiction. As the offer of these Structured Products and/or the possession, circulation or distribution of the Issuance Documentation or any other 
offering or publicity material relating to these Structured Products may be restricted or prohibited by the laws and regulations of certain countries or 
jurisdictions, any person who receives this Termsheet, any other part of the Issuance Documentation and/or any other offering or publicity material 
relating to these Structured Products are advised to consult their legal advisers on any such restrictions or prohibitions, and to observe them at all 
times. 
 
Further risk information and selling restrictions 
Please also note the additional risk factors and selling restrictions set out in detail in the issuance programme. 
 
Warning Statement 
 
Australia 
No prospectus or other disclosure document (as defined in the Corporations Act 2001 of Australia ("Corporations Act")) in relation to this document 
and the Issuance Programme (as defined below) (collectively, the "Product Documentation") or the Securities has been or will be, lodged with the 
Australian Securities and Investments Commission ("ASIC"). Each person dealing in the Securities is required to represent and agree that it:  
(a)  has not (directly or indirectly) offered or invited applications, and will not offer or invite applications, for the issue, sale or purchase of the 

Securities in Australia (including an offer or invitation which is received by a person in Australia); or 

(b)  has not distributed or published, and will not distribute or publish, any Issuance Programme, information memorandum or any other offering 

material or advertisement relating to the Securities in Australia, 

     unless, 

(i) 

the aggregate consideration payable by the offeree is at least A$500,000 (or its equivalent in an alternate currency, in either case, 
disregarding monies lent by the offeror or its associates) or the offer otherwise does not require disclosure to investors under Parts 6D.2 or 
7.9 of the Corporations Act 

(ii)  such action complies with all applicable laws, regulations and directives (including, without limitation, the licensing requirements set out in 

Chapter 7 of the Corporations Act); 
the offer or invitation is not made to a person who is a 'retail client' within the meaning of section 761G of the Corporations Act; and 

(iii) 
(iv)  such action does not require any document to be lodged with ASIC. 

Hong Kong 
No person may issue or have in its possession for the purposes of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, any advertisement, invitation or document 
relating to the Structured Products, which is directed at, or the contents of which are likely to be accessed or read by, the public of Hong Kong (except 
if permitted to do so under the securities laws of Hong Kong) other than with respect to the Structured Products which are or are intended to be 
disposed of only to persons outside Hong Kong or only to “professional investors” as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of 
Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance. 
Singapore 
This document and the issuance programme (collectively, the "Product Documentation") have not been registered as a prospectus with the Monetary 
Authority of Singapore under the Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289 of Singapore) (the "SFA"). 
Accordingly, the Product Documentation and any other document or material in connection with the offer or sale, or invitation for subscription or 
purchase, of the Structured Products to be issued from time to time by the Issuer pursuant to the offer may not be circulated or distributed, nor may the 
Structured Products be offered or sold, or be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directly or indirectly, to any person 
in Singapore other than (a) to an institutional investor (as defined in Section 4A of the SFA) pursuant to Section 274 of the SFA, (b) to a relevant person 
(as defined in Section 275(2) of the SFA) pursuant to Section 275(1) of the SFA, or any person pursuant to an offer referred to in Section 275(1A) of the 
SFA, and in accordance with the applicable conditions specified in Section 275 of the SFA or (c) otherwise pursuant to, and in accordance with the 
conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. 
Where the Structured Products are acquired by persons who are relevant persons specified in Section 276 of the SFA, namely: 
(a)  
  
(b) 
  
the shares, debentures and units of shares and debentures of that corporation or the beneficiaries’ rights and interest (howsoever described) in that 
trust shall not be transferred within 6 months after that corporation or that trust has acquired the Structured Products pursuant to an offer made under 
Section 275 of the SFA except: 

a corporation (which is not an accredited investor (as defined in Section 4A of the SFA)) the sole business of which is to hold investments  
and the entire share capital of which is owned by one or more individuals, each of whom is an accredited investor; or 
a trust (where the trustee is not an accredited investor) whose sole purpose is to hold investments and each beneficiary of the trust is an  
individual who is an accredited investor,  

 

 

(1) 

to an institutional investor (under Section 274 of the SFA) or to a relevant person as defined in Section 275(2) of the SFA, or any person 
pursuant to an offer that is made on terms that such shares, debentures and units of shares and debentures of that corporation or such 
rights or interest in that trust are acquired at a consideration of not less than S$200,000 (or its equivalent in a foreign currency) for each 

6/6  Investment Banking / Termsheet (Final Terms) 

Vontobel 

 

transaction, whether such amount is to be paid for in cash or by exchange of securities or other assets and further for corporations, in 
accordance with the conditions specified in Section 275(1A) of the SFA; 

(2)  where no consideration is or will be given for the transfer; 
(3)  where the transfer is by operation of law 
(4)  as specified in Section 276(7) of the SFA; or 
(5)  as specified in Regulation 32 of the Securities and Futures (Offers of Investments)(Shares and Debentures) Regulations 2005 of 

Singapore 

By accepting receipt of this document, any person in Singapore represents and warrants that he is entitled to receive such document in accordance 
with the restrictions set forth above and agrees to be bound by the limitations contained herein. 
United Kingdom 
Structured Products may be distributed and sold only by persons 
a. 

in the case of Structured Products with a term of less than one year (i) whose customary activities include the acquisition, the ownership, the 
management or the sale of investments (in their own name or on behalf of third parties) for their business purposes and (ii) who have offered or 
sold or will offer or sell the Structured Products only to persons whose activities in the ordinary course of business comprise the acquisition, the 
ownership, the management or the sale of investments (directly or on behalf of third parties) for their business purposes and (iii) who have only 
offered or sold or who will only offer and sell the Structured Products to persons whose customary business activities include the acquisition, the 
ownership, the management or sale of investments (in their own name or on behalf of third parties) for their business purposes or who one may 
properly assume will acquire, possess, manage or sell investments (for their own account or on behalf of third parties) for their business purposes, 
to the extent that the issue of Structured Products would otherwise constitute a violation by the Issuer of Section 19 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”); 

b.  who have communicated or will communicate or who have arranged for the communication or will arrange for the communication of the 

invitations or inducements to engage in investment activities (as referred to in Section 21 of the FSMA) which they have received in connection 
with the issue or the sale of the Structured Products only under conditions under which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Issuer or 
the Guarantor; and 

c.  who have complied with and will comply with all the applicable provisions of the FSMA in all actions taken by them in respect of the Structured 
Products to the extent that they are taken in the United Kingdom, emanate from the United Kingdom or otherwise relate to the United Kingdom. 

Legal Notices 
 
Product documentation 
Only the Termsheets published at www.derinet.ch along with the associated notices and adjustments shall be legally valid.  
The original version of the Termsheet is in German; foreign-language versions constitute non-binding translations. The issuer and/or Bank Vontobel AG 
is entitled to correct spelling mistakes, calculation or other obvious errors in this Termsheet and to make editorial changes, as well as to amend or 
supplement contradictory or incomplete provisions, without the consent of the investors.  
Up until the initial fixing date, the product terms designated as such of the "Termsheet (Indication)" are indicative and may be adjusted. The issuer is 
under no obligation to issue the product. The "Termsheet (Final Terms)", which is usually issued on the date of the initial fixing, contains a summary of 
the most important final terms and information, and constitutes the "Final Terms" pursuant to art. 21 of the Additional Rules for the Listing of Derivates 
of SIX Swiss Exchange. Together with the current issuance programme, registered with SIX Swiss Exchange (the „Issuance Programme“), the Final 
Terms constitute the complete listing prospectus according to the Listing Rules. In the event of discrepancies between this Termsheet and the 
Issuance Programme, the provisions of the Final Terms shall take precedence.  
For structured products not listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange, the Termsheet (Indication) constitutes the preliminary simplified prospectus and 
Termsheet (Final Terms) constitutes the definitive simplified prospectus pursuant to art. 5 of the Federal Act on Collective Investment Schemes (CISA). 
In addition, reference is also made (with the exception of the provisions authoritative for a listing) to the Issuance Programme, in particular to the 
detailed information on risks contained therein, to the General Terms and Conditions and to the descriptions of the corresponding product types.  
During the entire term of the structured product, all documents may be ordered free of charge from Bank Vontobel AG, Financial Products 
documentation, Bleicherweg 21, 8002 Zurich (telephone: +41 58 283 78 88) and may also be downloaded on the www.derinet.com website. Vontobel 
explicitly rejects any liability for publications on other Internet platforms. 
 
Further information 
The list and information shown do not constitute a recommendation concerning the underlying in question; they are for information purposes only and 
do not constitute either an offer or an invitation to submit an offer, or a recommendation to purchase financial products. Indicative information is 
provided without warranty. The information is not a substitute for the advice that is indispensable before entering into any derivative transaction. Only 
investors who fully understand the risks of the transaction to be concluded and who are commercially in a position to bear the losses which may 
thereby arise should enter into such transactions. Furthermore, we refer to the brochure "Special Risks in Securities Trading" which you can order from 
us. In connection with the issuing and/or selling of structured products, companies from the Vontobel Group can pay reimbursements to third parties 
directly or indirectly in different amounts (for details see "Figures for fees and charges”). Such commission is included in the issue price. You can obtain 
further information from your sales agent upon request. We will be happy to answer any questions you may have concerning our products on +41 58 
283 78 88 from 08.00 – 17.00 CET on bank business days. Please note that all calls to this number are recorded. By calling this number, your consent to 
such recording is deemed given. 
 
 

7/6  Investment Banking / Termsheet (Final Terms) 

Vontobel 

 
Material changes since the most recent annual financial statements 
Subject to the information in this Termsheet and the Issuance Programme, no material changes have occurred in the assets and liabilities, financial 
position and profits and losses of the issuer/guarantor since the reporting date or the close of the last financial year or the interim financial statements 
of the issuer and, as the case may be, of the guarantor. 
 
Responsibility for the listing prospectus 
Bank Vontobel AG takes responsibility for the content of the listing prospectus and hereby declares that, to the best of its knowledge, the information is 
correct and that no material facts or circumstances have been omitted. 
Bank Vontobel AG, Zurich 

Zurich, 25 October 2017 
Bank Vontobel AG, Zurich 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your customer relationship manager will be happy to answer any questions you may have. 

 

Bank Vontobel AG  

Banque Vontobel SA,  

Gotthardstrasse 43, CH-8022 Zürich  

Rue du Rhône 31, CH-1204 Genève 

Telefon +41 (0)58 283 71 11 

Internet: http://www.derinet.com 
 

Téléphone +41 (0)58 283 26 26 

Internet: http://www.derinet.com 

 

